# Marker Icon Configuration

## Overview

To modify the map marker icons you will need to install some tools including git/github, UV and NPM - see [EDITING_DATA.md](EDITING_DATA.md).  

Markers on the map are displayed with icons which are loaded by the map frontend from PNG files distributed with the map.  

There are two sets of icon files:  

- `public/img/markers` contains user generated icons  
- `public/img/rendered` contains icons generated by a script  

How the appearance of the rendered is controlled by [iconConfigs.json](../public/data/iconConfigs.json), and they are updated by running a build (`npm run build`) or running the web server (`npm run dev`).  

Which icon is used for a particular object is normally controlled by the type looked up in [gameClasses.json](../public/data/gameClasses.json) though it can also be overriden per instance.  

## Icon Configuration

Each line of [iconConfigs.json](../public/data/iconConfigs.json) consists of a name followed by a list of properties.  

Names should consist of upper/lower case letters, numbers or underscore. Dot is reserved for variants and per game options.  

### Properties

#### Rendering Properties
__"type":__ ["point"] Controls defaults for positioning and background appearance if rendered  
- "pin" icon background will be a pin and anchor will be bottom middle of image  
- "point" icon background will be a circle and anchor will be in the center of the image  

__"style":__ ["png"] Specifies whether the icon is rendered or user generated  
- "png" | "svg" | "ico" icon will be loaded from `public\img\markers\{name}` with corresponding extension  
- "fa?" Font Awesome icon will be rendered to `public\img\rendered\{name}.png` with * controlling the style  
    - fas = solid, far = regular, fal = light, fat = thin, dad = duotone, fab = brands  
- "fapng" | "fasvg" | "faico" icon will be rendered onto FA icon but with final icon being a user generated icon file  

__"iconName":__ Specifies the name of the font awesome icon or UGC icon to render to the marker  
__"bg":__ ["grey"] Specifies the colour name (or #{hexcode}) to use for the background when rendering  
__"fg":__ ["white"] Specifies the colour name (or #(hexcode}) to use for the Font Awesome pin rendering  

#### Frontend Properties
Icons are rendered as 48x48 squares but are scaled and position based on a further set of options. These are set to different defaults depending if type is "pin" or "point".

__"iconSize":__ [32, 32]  base size for icon in pixels  
__"iconAnchor":__ [16, 16], anchor position in pixels from top left corner ([16, 32] for pins)  
__"popupAnchor"__ [0, -16],  popup dialog position in pixels from anchor point ([0, -32] for pins)  
__"tooltipAnchor":__ [16, 16] tooltip position in pixels from anchor point ([16, 0] for pins)  

## Examples

### Static Point Icon
```
"anvil" : {}
```
`img/markers/anvil.png` will be loaded and the defaults set up for a point style icon with the centre placed over the specific location.

### Static Pin Icon
```
  "anvil" : { "type": "pin" }
```
`img/markers/anvil.png` will be loaded and the defaults set up for a pin style icon with the bottom centre placed over the specific location.

### Font Awesome Pin
```
  "cloud": {"type": "pin", "style": "fas", "iconName": "cloud", "bg": "lightgrey", "fg": "white"},
```
`img/markers/cloud.png` will be rendered by the build process. The background will be a _lightgrey_ pin and a FontAwesome _cloud_ icon in _solid_ style will be drawn on top in _white_.

See [Font Awesome Free Icons](https://fontawesome.com/search?q=cloud&ic=free-collection) for the possible names and styles.

### Icon Variants

Some markers have variants, for example clouds in Supraworld come in different colours and the diggable blocks in SIU come in different materials or similarly poker chips.

__variant__ is a property of map markers and can be seen by clicking on an icon on the map, if the marker has a variant it will show in the popup dialog. If you click on a red cloud you will see __Variant: red__.

When you configure a marker icon class in [gameClasses.json](../public/data/gameClasses.json) you can add some flags after the icon configuration name.
```
"PuzzleCloud_C" : { "friendly": "Puzzle Cloud", "icon": "cloud:v", "layer": "clouds", "nospoiler": null, "games": ["sw"] },
```
Here the ':v' in the type/class properties tells us we want to use icons chosen based on the variant. So a blue cloud would look for `cloud.blue.png` instead of `cloud.png`.

When generating icons in the rendered directory the system goes through all markers of types have "{icon}:v" and generates the corresponding colour variants when it generates the base icon.

### Rendered Icons

Rendered icons consist of a background and a foreground layer.

The background is either a pin or a circle, outlined in black, and filled with the background (bg) colour (default grey).

The foreground is either a Font Awesome Icon drawn in the foreground (fg) colour (default white) or a PNG from the markers directory.

By default, if the class specifies icon variants then the frontend will load an icon with the variant name. Thus `cloud.blue.png`, and the background colour will be set to the variant colour.

The renderer will render `cloud.blue.png` using the corresponding entry in [iconConfigs.json](../public/data/iconConfigs.json). If there is no corresponding entry it will render the icon using the rule `cloud` rule.

```
  "cloud" :      {"type": "pin", "style": "fas",   "iconName": "cloud",   "bg": "lightgrey", "fg": "v:white" },
  "cloud.blue":  {"type": "pin", "style": "fas",   "iconName": "cloud",   "bg": "white",     "fg": "orange" },
  "cloud.purple":{"type": "pin", "style": "fapng", "iconName": "mycloud", "bg": "yellow" },
```

There are white (empty variant), blue and purple puzzle cloud variants, so this would generate the following in `img/rendered`

|Rendered PNG | Background | Foreground |
|-|-|-|
|cloud.png| lightgrey| white FA cloud |
|cloud.blue.png| white| orange FA cloud|
|cloud.purple.png|yellow| marker/mycloud.png|
|cloud.red.png |lightgrey|red* FA cloud| 

* If the v: option was not included in 'fg' for cloud, then cloud.red.png would have a red background and a white foreground.

### Changing Icon Relative Size

You can change the relative size icons will be drawn for a specific type by adding the x flag in [gameClasses.json](../public/data/gameClasses.json).

For example this:
```
  "Coin_C" : {"friendly": "Coin", "icon": "coin:x0.5", "layer": "coin" ... }
```
Causes the frontend to halve the size of the coin icon when used for Coin_C type icons.

### Varying an icon for a specific game

To make it possible to have the icon for the same class look different in the first three games you can also use the ':g' flag after the icon config reference. This causes the frontend to look for `{icon}.{game}.png` (or `{icon}.{game}.{variant}.png` with ':vg').
```
  "BuyTranslocator_C" : {"friendly": "Translocator", "icon": "translocator:g", "layer": "upgrades", ... },
```
Thus when a BuyTranslocator_C marker is loaded in SIU the frontend will load `translocator.siu.png` but for SL it will load `translocator.sl.png`.

### Overriding an icon for an instance

In SIU we add an icon override to [custom-markers.siu.json](../public/data/custom-markers.siu.json) to change the icon to the `img/markers/health.png` image.
```
  {
    "name": "BP_MonsterChest_2",
    "area": "DLC2_Complete",
    "type": "BP_DoubleHealthLoot_C",
    "icon": "health"
  },
```

In Crash we add a custom marker for the strength quest with a specific icon [custom-markers.slc.json](../public/data/custom-markers.slc.json):
```
  {
    "name": "BP_A3_StrengthQuest_SLC_Body",
    "type": "BP_A3_StrengthQuest_C",
    "area": "Crash",
    "icon": "strong_body",
  },
```

Also in SIU we also override the coin size for the giant coin on the front of the bank:
```
  {
    "name": "Coin328",
    "area": "DLC2_Complete",
    "icon": "coin:48"
  },
```
## Recommended Workflow
1. Install the tools (git, uv, npm, optionally Github, VoidTools Everything, Image Magick, for dev VS Code)
2. Use Git to get a local copy of your fork of the maps project and create a branch
3. Open a command shell:
    - `uv sync`
    - `npm install`
    - `npm run dev`
4. Ctrl-Click on the URL displayed by `npm run dev` to open a browser window
5. Choose the map you want to change the icons for
6. Open the relevant configuration files in a text editor:
    - [iconConfigs.json](../public/data/iconConfigs.json)
    - [gameClasses.json](../public/data/gameClasses.json)
7. Make changes to the text files and the PNG (or SVG) files in [markers](../public/img/markers/)
8. Update the rendered icons:
    - Ctrl-C (in the shell to shutdown the server)
    - `npm run dev` (to rebuild the icons and restart the server)
9. Open the [rendered](../public/img/rendered/) marker folder in explorer to see the results
10. Refresh the browser window to see the result on the map

Once you are happy with the updated appearance of the map, commit your changes to the branch, push the result to your fork and add a PR to the SupraCommunity maps project. Someone will review your PR and once approved it can be merged into the main branch. 

